a very great question to ask that's not
too intrusive that's very common is just
simply how many overnights do you guys
do that's it that is the critical
question that you can put together a lot
of pieces of the puzzle with you know if
you ask too many questions about the
schedule they're like well this guy
doesn't want to work he's lazy you know
what I mean so you got to be
[Music]
careful hello aviators welcome back to
the proile Playbook podcast bringing you
the tips tricks hacks and shortcuts to
get you into that cockpit faster and
cheaper I'm Shan Richie and I'm Mike
Martin and we're back again with another
EP yeah another
episode I I think this will be a good
one um especially for people that you
know are a little more advanced in their
training and they're getting ready to do
that first interview um real quick
though yeah cuz we always do this at the
end yeah I I I said I wanted to do this
at the beginning here um you know if you
guys are enjoying this show you know I
mean it is becoming more and more
popular but nothing helps more than
hitting that subscribe button even if
you don't want the notifications
although hitting the notification button
would be nice too but you know at least
throw us a thumbs up and uh you know if
you're if you're too busy to go to
propilot playbook.com and and check out
our stuff we have there you can always
now go to the App Store and download The
propile Playbook app which we're pretty
excited about after you have the app you
can view our entire course we sell in
there if you're a live coaching member
which we do once a week uh you can chat
with us and ask us any question you want
uh once a week uh we have this thing
scheduled you can do that from the app
anywhere on planet Earth that you have
an internet
um but definitely you know uh this thing
is growing it's uh becoming bigger and
bigger we actually have been contacted
by some uh at least one pretty
high-profile uh uh uh YouTuber or
podcaster out there that um this thing's
actually working taking off we're
helping so many people we love all the
emails you're sending us the Kudos and
the you know you guys you guys you got
me into I never thought about being a
pilot and it's changed my life you know
we love that stuff it's so humbling it
is the reason we started all this and uh
yeah our subscribers are our in
Inspiration so please yeah definitely
subscribe to that channel if we would
have started this you know whatever five
years ago and nobody would have
subscribed or liked our videos then
there's no way we'd still be doing it so
right you know it really gives us the
momentum you know at a minimum so yeah
thanks for bringing up and you know it
always annoys me all the YouTubers bring
that up at the beginning so we never did
but that
to do it so here we are that like button
for us but but we'll now we'll get into
the good advice here so so this is from
Thomas in Los Angeles um and and this
this email is about he has an upcoming
interview and uh the reason we want to
read it it's a little lengthy but uh so
I'll summarize it but the reason we want
to read is we do get a lot of these uh
interview questions and that that's why
we're getting new innovated products and
that was inspiration for one of our new
products which is where Sean and I
actually interview you we have a a prep
course for that um there's there's a
bunch if and this is good information
for people that want to be an airline
pilot there's a bunch of companies that
actually prep people for uh airline
pilot interviews you pay them lots of
money and they really work they work
really good in fact if you have an
interview at a major airline like uh you
know Delta United or something you'd be
crazy to go into that without a prep
course it's beyond that and these things
that you know these folks there's
there's uh I could name three off the
top of my head that are they you know do
all the interview prep for Airlines and
these things are thousands of dollars
and it's not just you'd be crazy not to
do it like you have to do it because
everybody you're sitting next to in the
interview has done it and the interview
is so complex and locked down so tight
that um they can tell if you haven't had
any interview prep totally and uh but
nobody's doing it for the corporate
stuff which
you know that's our world and like you
were probably just getting ready to say
Mike you know over the last few months
we've gotten emails uh just like this
one that uh you know folks trying to
walk into a corporate interview and uh
so that's why we've created that product
now on our
website yeah yeah yeah so so this one's
from Thomas from Los Angeles um he's got
an interview it doesn't really say his
experience level but I'm assuming it's
like one of his first interviews because
he sounds very exciting
with a corporate operator and he he's
he's reviewed you know some of the
normal I'm I'm reading here de pressed
up um he's given us lots of compliments
he says he's a big fan which Sean and I
love compliments you
know we need three things food water and
compliments we love the FL but but yeah
thank you Thomas for all of that um but
but uh basically he's asking at the end
of the interview which he knows and he
hears they typically say do you have any
questions for us um and and he's thought
of some things but he wants to know our
opinion on what to ask and this is
really great and in my opinion this is
what can really differentiate you as a
candidate uh when they're interviewing
several people because they're going to
ask the same questions uh about you know
your experience level and maybe you know
overcoming obstacles and all that kind
of stuff uh to all the pilots but your
response to do you have any questions
for us is going to totally be different
than anyone else's response because it's
your own you know it's your own thoughts
so this is a this is a very very uh uh
good thing to prepare for and we'll give
you some ideas in this video on on what
what we think you should ask on that
note you know you know these guys do
this for a living it a lot of them they
already know what questions they would
be asking or whatever you know so the
more bland or general your your
questions are you know if you go in
there with some detailed detailed
questions like the ones that we're about
to Rattle off here questions Mike and I
would be asking if we were in a
corporate interview yeah um they can
tell you know this individual's got his
stuff together he's he's thinking you
know you know like chess here you know
three four head moves ahead um he's not
just wanting to know uh you know how
many airplanes do you have you know
it's uh anyway let's get into it yeah
yeah well you can start Sean and and you
know I'm sure we need to touch on you
should need to
thoroughly uh research the company right
I mean absolutely yeah especially you
know so these corporate operators we've
said this in the past you know you could
be dealing with um I use this word all
the time uh you know more or less like a
mom and pop company maybe they they got
you know one airplane and you know two
pilots that fly it maybe a third so guys
can have some time off or they have to
go to training or you could be dealing
with that or you could be dealing with
something like a you know a whole flight
Department like here in Cincinnati uh
you know we have some some major players
here in Cincinnati Proctor and Gamble
the the Kroger company that owns like 26
different you know uh grocery store
chains um uh Centos uh I mean the list
goes on in La uh oh my God yeah talk
about it the whole episode prob right
right so um you got to do your research
on the company you know if you're going
into an interview at a Fortune 500
flight Department you you better be up
the speed on any current events uh some
company history you know the stuff
they're proud of the whole kitten
Kaboodle I mean absolutely and that goes
for any company but the stuff is way
easier to find at those you know
high-end hogy outfit corporate corporate
stuff um right and I I would categorize
the questions you ask and now that we're
on this topic of of two there's two
types of questions ask here one are the
what we just talked about and what
you're bringing up which is you know
things that they expect you to ask
that's going to impress them um and
they're they're basically tactical
questions to ask them and that's what
Sean has has mentioned that are very
important um and then the second group
would be things you actually want to
know before you take the job you know
and depending on how bad you want the
job is uh uh how much of a balance of
those questions you are you know um uh
but but I I think you know any quality
of life questions and there's very
tactful ways to ask those are important
for you whether you're going to take the
job and some of those questions are
important to um to them because it shows
you really have done your homework and
you are concerned with the job and uh
they they also probably are probably
proud and some operators to ask to
answer those questions because they feel
their quality of life is very good and
the places they go are very good and all
that kind of stuff basically what Mike
is saying here is you can use your
question to I guess for lack of better
word impress them with your knowledge of
what the company's doing so if you're
going into uh you know a holding company
that owns a bunch of different
restaurant Brands you could say
something like hey you know i' I've seen
the recent news how you guys just bought
uh this next chain of restaurants and
that's awesome that is huge growth for
the for your company is is this the path
you guys are planning on continuing this
this type of growth um you know that
kind of thing you know right it's you
could possibly be asking questions as
above you know who's sitting in the
flight Department interview totally
totally above their and you could link
that into uh where they're going right
so I yeah I I recently read that you you
know acquired this business in
Minneapolis um it should should I expect
to go there well that's that's that's
telling you two things it's telling them
you know what you're doing you did your
homework and it's telling you if whether
or not you like Minneapolis that's
probably where you're going a lot you
know um they're going to answer that
that question for you so yeah that
that's really great uh really great um
um and then there's some some really
basic questions you can ask um to get an
idea for the schedule um um you know we
don't we don't really advise and we'll
get into the money thing in a little bit
but doing too heavily on the interview
talking about money but you can you can
talk a lot about where they go some ways
you can uh and and what the schedule's
going to be like and without directly
asking it um some some questions I like
are is you know uh you know where do you
operate do you do day trips um if it's
an individual or a family or there's
family members that you're supporting uh
where do they have homes um and and a
lot of times try to know the answers to
these questions uh before you ask them
in the interview and then you can have a
kind of a positive reaction to some of
that stuff like if you already know that
you know you love skiing and uh you
already have heard through other people
on the field that they go to Aspen all
the time because the owner has a house
there uh and you love that then be
mentally prepared to have a positive
reaction to that you know um um um you
know if they have uh Factory in Detroit
and you don't really care for Detroit
but if you know that that answer is
coming um you could you know still
manage your your oh yeah no great you
know that's uh right and a good lead
into those into those exact questions
you're talking about Mike would be is
the aircraft primarily used for business
purposes or does the owner also use it
to travel to his homes is there personal
travel on the aircraft um you know that
that you know what that equates to what
you just asked is am I going to be
working a lot at weekends or is it
mostly during the
week right or both but what sounds
better what Sean said or what I said
right so so there's a finesse uh
involved in asking those questions
totally totally yeah that's a good point
yeah you got me you got me there and
what uh what another thing that's
important that you'll know ahead of time
don't ask us in the interview but is the
company a public business or is it
privately held um and there's Arguments
for both working for both um you know uh
I I I don't I won't really weigh in on
that but um you know public companies
like new airplanes expensive airplanes
um and they usually fly really nice
stuff because they're not spending their
money they're spending the shareholders
money um which can be a good thing um
but um when public companies don't do as
well they have to answer to all those
shareholders so a lot of times that
relates that turns to downsizing where
uh private companies they may not spend
it like the public companies do but they
may keep it because they really enjoy
the plane and they don't have to answer
to anyone if there's an economic
downturn so uh that's that's a there's
we could do an entire podcast on that
but that's kind of the uh the the quick
points on public versus private but know
that going into the interview you know
um and uh uh what what else can you
think Sean well that brings up a good
point of knowing you know knowing stuff
before you go into the interview so yeah
you know this is it it would be so
advantageous for you to uh Thomas to and
hopefully you didn't mention this but
hopefully this is the case that you have
you know somebody particularly a pilot
that works there you have some type of
inside intel if you don't have any
direct contact with somebody maybe you
know somebody who knows somebody
um you know getting some some stuff even
something you could just straight up ask
this individual after you get them on
the phone you know what was your
interview like how long ago was that you
know are they are they more focused on
technical stuff in the interview like uh
you know you're you're told to descend
uh cross a point uh 100 100 nautical
miles away you're currently at uh flight
level 330 and you need to cross this
point at flight level 20 Z when you
going to start you know is it like that
type of an interview or they W to get to
know you what type of human being you
are type of interview and you know some
or the other the biggest thing is
just all the other stuff you know
schedule and and pay and upgrade and
stuff yeah um that type of Intel uh
before you go work for one of these
outfits is is important because as
corporate Pilots you know you choose
this sliver of the industry for you know
basically flying less you know we've
Mike and I have talked about this before
on the show um you know your typical
airline pilot you know can fly you know
when they're busy when it's busy and
right you know you can being close close
to 100 hours a month you know I would
say that's on the highend most of them
are probably you know 75 hours a month
something like that but um you know in
the corporate
world uh you know it's oh you me
Airlines I'm sorry yeah I was saying
Airlines um you know in the corporate
world you know we may fly you know a
great corporate job is about 150 hours a
year you know maybe up to 300 hours a
year somewhere in there yeah now now the
pay in the corporate world is typically
a little less than an airline pilot but
um that's the tradeoff you you know
you're home more you could have a side
business side hustle uh where the
airline guys got to you know they got to
be a little more strategic with
scheduling to uh be able to have side
hustles or at least wait till they got
some seniority and they can manipulate
stuff a little bit they're still flying
the same amount of days basically uh you
know 12 to maybe 15 days a month um you
can pick up trips to make more money or
yeah more money but uh it's just they're
flying all day when out there flying
they're not typically doing one leg um
yeah a very great question to ask that's
not too intrusive that's very common is
just simply how many overnights do you
guys do that's it that is the critical
question that you can put together a lot
of pieces of the puzzle with yeah and
most flight department managers will
have that number memorized you know off
the type of the they'll be prepared for
that question and it's a common question
it's not going to seem intrusive you
know if you ask too many questions about
the schedule they're like well this guy
doesn't want work he's lazy you know
what I mean so you got to be careful
right that's where that Intel comes in
so asking asking things about like who
does the scheduling how many scheduled
days off a month do I you know that kind
of stuff looks like you're you know
already wanting to be a slacker you know
the first time they lay eyes on you so I
would avoid that save that for your for
your uh Intel provider to answer right
yes and also it's always good to talk
about the airplanes um um you can you
can talk about you know obviously the
plane they're flying now which you're
going to know a lot about because you're
going to know that ahead of time um and
you can talk with the interviewer about
that airplane how they enjoy it and and
how that fits the company's needs AKA
are they going to sell it and get
something bigger or smaller um and then
you can kind of get into well what
what's the plan here um you know how how
long do you think we'll be in this what
what future is on the horiz and that
kind of thing uh just get an idea for
the fleet those are very uh
non-intrusive uh average questions to
ask yeah right and um any questions to
do with training or fair game um you
know what type of uh I assume there'll
be some company in Doc training but um
am I going to be typed right away in the
airplane or do you guys do an in-house
second command second command training
and then at a later point I will be
typed in the airplane um that type of
stuff is is is fair game um another
great one is uh what's especially with a
big flight Department uh big big
corporate you know somebody's got five
six airplanes you know what's What's the
upgrade
time um you know in some of these
corporate operators it's not even a
thing because a lot of a lot of these
people uh have switched to co- Captain
operations yeah everybody's just a
captain um nobody's like a greenhorn
first officer co-pilot and then you
finally pay your dues and you become a
Captain you know it's that's you know
it's not like that everybody's pretty
much a co- captain at these operators
but you never know um it's a it's a
great question to ask what's the upgrade
time yeah that's a fantastic I mean yeah
I think uh and don't certainly don't ask
all these questions but you know uh I
would take take note of them and then
that gives you some great ideas and kind
of read the room you know um for inst
great strategy though Mike you know you
turn this thing around and you interview
them just as long as they interviewed
you I don't know that could go either
way maybe not yeah well that's good yeah
if you have Intelligence on the
interview or find out what he's into if
you find out he's got a steeran that he
likes to fly in the side and you like
steeran you know you might bring that up
um you can ask about the guys and girls
that you'll be flying with and what what
what they are like even if you already
know and then maybe react to those
questions in a way that you might show
that you would mesh with them you know
really well um so so you know there
there there's a lot of U uh you know
personal things you could ask um um to
that might further uh think that you're
a good fit you know but just kind of
read the room a lot of a lot of
department managers are very proud of
their schedule they're very proud of
their quality of life of their pilots
and if they seem to react well to that
um you know they're probably happy that
you're asking those questions absolutely
are brag about what a great job it is
you know oh yeah because Mike you got to
understand when you're sitting in this
interview I
mean whoever manages that flight
department for this corporate operator
is going to be sitting across from you
and you know the smaller operations you
may be sitting across from the owner
most likely you will be sitting across
from the owner but at a bigger thing
like a you know I mentioned Proctor and
Gamble you're going to be sitting across
the table from the the director of the
flight department and absolutely he's
going to be proud of whatever he's got
going on with with schedule and the
operation there because he's the one
that fought for it all and most likely
designed you know most of it so yep yep
and one last one that you may not
necessarily bring up but you know it
depends on the room and everything but
but uh I you do get a lot of guys will
ask in gals uh session questions I guess
you would say um um if you're flying for
an individual CU there are a lot of jobs
out there and I don't know what Thomas
is up to but but you know where you're
flying for for one person that's
extremely wealthy um that either sold
their business or is in charge of their
business and um you know if they pass
away which this is always a difficult
thing and this might be a second or
third interview question um um does that
mean the airplane is sold uh or or or is
there a you know is there a plan in
place or what do they feel is the
longevity here um you know if it's just
one individual you know if it's
blatantly obvious you may not want to
ask that question and you may want to
get some intelligence before you ask
that but it is a concern you know um cuz
you know a lot of really wealthy people
are very advanced in age they really are
I mean it's just the way it is it takes
a long time to make a lot of money A lot
of times you know right and you just
reminded me of a a the way I've asked
that question before Mike in an
interview it to avoid avoid that direct
you know unpleasantness is to ask
especially on these you know the
corporate stuff it doesn't matter but
you know you're what you're talking
about is referencing who we've both
flown for um you know you got one owner
one airplane the question to ask is who
all uses the airplane is it yeah there
you go is it just you or is other
departments within the company using it
um you know whatever you know I had one
situation where Not only was the owner
unit using it but he also had several
dry leases on it and um so yeah even if
he went away there would be cause to
keep the airplane around or the those
leases could get together and just
purchase the airplane and and that kind
of thing uh one more thing I I jotted
down here here what while you were
talking you had mentioned something
about um talking about airplanes and you
know is this is this airframe working
for you guys you know uh your the
mission you guys do with range and and
you know how many seats are in it blah
blah blah um you could turn that into um
do you see in anytime in the near future
uh the need to you
know add to the fleet I mean do you guys
is that ever you know something to that
effect right you know when you're
talking about is this airframe working
for you is everybody like it um yeah
yeah because you know more airplanes is
better more airplanes means more pilots
underneath you as they get you know
hired and uh uh more opportunity and
yeah all of that so these are all um
great things for you to decide um a lot
of times when it's your first job um you
you you know you'll be less selective
and care less about something these
answers um and then you know when you
already have a good job and maybe you're
interviewing for one that's only
slightly better you may lean a little
heavier on some of these questions you
know up the heat yeah yeah so everything
is based on your personal situation but
hopefully for our viewers this really
helps yeah you know and if nothing else
it you know definitely gave you some
jumping off points besides the exact
questions we asked do have a couple
other thing I want to add on um I jotted
down here uh uh here's some questions
that you absolutely do not want to
ask okay just a wrap it up um I think
that's a pretty good list of stuff that
could keep you talking for a while um
yeah especially if you got you know a
talker in this interview is just going
to keep on rambling on about this and
that and blah blah blah but don't ask
how much vacation don't ask any HR type
stuff you know what I mean stuff you're
going to find out anyway that is
probably going to be f
any this is a company who owns an
airplane you know they're going to take
care of their people okay you know they
didn't accidentally own an airplane for
you know being you know uh uh
inappropriate with their employees so
don't ask simple stupid stuff like well
how much vacation time do I get or yes
you do you guys have health insurance
you know all that can be handled by
email later you know right and you know
what that's going to be present you're
going to get an offer letter you know if
they like you you're going to get an
offer letter that explains everything
you know all your your benefit package
whatever and if there's something in
there that you have a question about or
you're not comfortable with that's
that's emails back and forth with an HR
person uh not not the guy you're sitting
across the table from in the interview
um yeah anything with yeah vacation paid
leave
salary um stay away from that one you
know you may get asked in the
interview prob if it's just you and an
owner I could see you getting asked what
what would you be expecting salary but
that question's not going to come up in
some kind of panel when you have uh you
know some other pilot sitting there and
the you know director of the flight
Department nobody's going to ask you
that question but um yeah don't talk
about money or vacation anything like
that right right that'll be all once
they establish that they like you those
details can all be worked out later
sure great well thanks for watching and
uh we really appreciate all your support
like we said in the beginning wait wa
wait Thomas Thomas one last thing hope
it's probably already happened now
because this email came in a little bit
ago but uh hopefully the job interview
went well if it hasn't happened yet good
luck yeah yeah you're right because of
the date on this he probably already had
the interview but hey email us and let
us know how it went we'd love to know
please yep yep thanks a lot keep the
questions coming guys we love video
questions yep if you got a question for
us you can email us at podcast propilot
playbook.com we love those video
questions thanks
[Music]